Add monitor Raspberry-Pi template (#2859)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/cloud/monitor-alert/templates/infrastructure/raspberry-pi.md

---
title: Monitor Raspberry Pi
description: >
  Use the Raspberry Pi system template to monitor your Raspberry Pi 4 or 400 Linux system. 
menu:
  influxdb_cloud:
    parent: Monitor infrastructure
    name: Raspberry Pi
weight: 201
---

Use the [Raspberry Pi Monitoring template](https://github.com/influxdata/community-templates/tree/master/raspberry-pi) to monitor your Raspberry Pi 4 or 400 Linux system.

The Raspberry Pi template includes the following:

- one [bucket](/influxdb/cloud/reference/glossary/#bucket): `rasp-pi` (7d retention)
- labels: `raspberry-pi` + Telegraf plugin labels
  - [Diskio input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#diskio) 
  - [Mem input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#mem) 
  - [Net input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#net) 
  - [Processes input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#processes) 
  - [Swap input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#swap) 
  - [System input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#system) 
- one [Telegraf configuration](/influxdb/cloud/telegraf-configs/)

> - one [dashboards](/influxdb/cloud/reference/glossary/#dashboard): Raspberry Pi System

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- one [dashboard](/influxdb/cloud/reference/glossary/#dashboard): Raspberry Pi System
```

- two variables: `bucket` and `linux_host`

## Apply the template

1. Use the [`influx` CLI](/influxdb/cloud/reference/cli/influx/) to run the following command:

    ```sh
    influx apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/influxdata/community-templates/master/raspberry-pi/raspberry-pi-system.yml
    ```
    For more information, see [influx apply](/influxdb/cloud/reference/cli/influx/apply/).

> 2. [Install Telegraf](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/introduction/installation/) on a server with network access to both your Raspberry Pi and the [InfluxDB v2 API](/influxdb/cloud/reference/api/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Install Telegraf](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/introduction/installation/) on a server with network access to both your Raspberry Pi and the [InfluxDB Cloud API](/influxdb/cloud/reference/api/).
```

> 3. In your Telegraf configuration file (`telegraf.conf`), find the following example `influxdb_v2` output plugins, and then **replace** the `urls` to specify the servers to monitor:

Reviewer: Users don't need to replace the URLs to monitor here. They actually shouldn't have to update the `telegraf.conf` at all. They simply need to define environment variables in their Telegraf environment. With this config, Telegraf will read the necessary credentials from the environment.

~~~suggestion
3. Add the following environment variables to your Telegraf environment:

    - `INFLUX_HOST`: Your [InfluxDB Cloud region URL](/influxdb/cloud/reference/regions/)
    - `INFLUX_TOKEN`: Your InfluxDB Cloud [authentication token](/influxdb/cloud/security/tokens/)
    - `INFLUX_ORG`: Your InfluxDB Cloud organization name.
    
    ```sh
    export INFLUX_HOST=https://cloud2.influxdata.com
    export INFLUX_TOKEN=mY5uP3rS3cr3T70keN
    export INFLUX_ORG=example-org
    ```
~~~

>    ```sh
>     ## cloudv2 sample
>     [[outputs.influxdb_v2]]
>      urls = ["$INFLUX_HOST"]
>      token = "$INFLUX_TOKEN"
>      organization = "$INFLUX_ORG"
>      bucket = “rasp-pi"
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

4. [Start Telegraf](/influxdb/cloud/write-data/no-code/use-telegraf/auto-config/#start-telegraf).

## View the incoming data

1. In the InfluxDB user interface (UI), select **Boards** (**Dashboards**).

    {{< nav-icon "dashboards" >}}

> 2. Open your dashboards, and then set the `v.bucket` variable to specify the bucket to query data from `rasp-pi`.

Author: Please verify that this is the only variable that needs to be specified for the dashboard.

Reviewer 2: In this template, not only the v.bucket is the only variable. The template also relies on the v.linux_host variable because there can be more than just one RPi device in the scope of monitoring.

Author: Thank you! We added linux_host!

The Raspberry Pi template includes the following:

- one [bucket](/influxdb/cloud/reference/glossary/#bucket): `rasp-pi` (7d retention)
- labels: `raspberry-pi` + Telegraf plugin labels
  - [Diskio input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#diskio) 
  - [Mem input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#mem) 
  - [Net input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#net) 
  - [Processes input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#processes) 
  - [Swap input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#swap) 
  - [System input plugin](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/plugins//#system) 
- one [Telegraf configuration](/influxdb/cloud/telegraf-configs/)
- one [dashboard](/influxdb/cloud/reference/glossary/#dashboard): Raspberry Pi System
- two variables: `bucket` and `linux_host`

## Apply the template

1. Use the [`influx` CLI](/influxdb/cloud/reference/cli/influx/) to run the following command:

    ```sh
    influx apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/influxdata/community-templates/master/raspberry-pi/raspberry-pi-system.yml
    ```
    For more information, see [influx apply](/influxdb/cloud/reference/cli/influx/apply/).

> 2. [Install Telegraf](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/introduction/installation/) on a server with network access to both your Raspberry Pi and the [InfluxDB Cloud API](/influxdb/cloud/reference/api/).

Reviewer: They actually need to install Telegraf ON their Raspberry Pi. The included Telegraf plugins collect metrics from the OS Telegraf is running on; not a remote OS.

```suggestion
2. [Install Telegraf](/{{< latest "telegraf" >}}/introduction/installation/) on your Raspberry Pi and ensure your Raspberry Pi has network access to the [InfluxDB Cloud API](/influxdb/cloud/reference/api/).
```
